we're recording hey welcome to the
weekly in web browsers and ipfs GUI
sinkhole allah attended today put some
fantastic people in the room so let us
begin with a round of what you done last
week what you're going to do next week
at the top of the bill as always is
vital I try to make it more interesting
this week so and I'll just mention four
things one is that we have a privacy
policy for aquifers companion it was
sort of suggested during the review at
Mozilla Adam store and the current
version is already reviewed by our legal
team it explains some like details
around what data goes where and for how
long can it be cached and stuff like
that with some additional privacy
considerations if you want to upload
sensitive data to appear first
yep so that's one thing and another is
that I made initial stab at making gate
will redirect making possible to opt out
from gate will redirect per website and
what I mean by website is basically for
a specific origin all the sub resources
loaded on the page so not only the same
domain not only all the subdomains but
basically all the sub resources on the
root page you are now able in this
branch you are able to opt out and to
avoid confusion I also move to the
global toggle to an icon and there is a
PR with some gifts but I think I should
be able to make a demo quickly let me
start
yep so apologies for the resolution but
what can we do
alright so you
let's open like Doc's portal our Doc's
portal is on the I pianist
it's a DNS linked page and you can see
here I have additional icon to disable
redirect globally which changes the
default gateway to the public gateway
and back to the local gateway but what's
interesting is that in the place when
you had before you had like a global
toggle you are able to disable redirect
only for this one website and here you
can see that domain from the DNS link
and if we disable the redirect for this
DNS link domain we go back in location
bar to the docs URL and here you can see
there's an option to restore redirects
back and we are back to the local
gateway so the part that's bit crude is
this like this dotted section I just
make it like super obvious that those
menu items are specific for the current
like to the active table because we had
like in past we had those options
basically merged together with those two
so that's something we probably should
like improve this visual language one of
ideas I had is to like add some
additional counters for example we could
count how many sub resources on the page
were redirected to local gateway and
display this like button only when there
were like actually any resources
redirected so on most of websites that
do not have an idea fest resources it
would like we would not have this
section let's say like
yeah so like here we are able to like
disable redirect but there were no I
give his resources
yeah so that's that and so that was a
demo for like the nesting websites but I
also have like a quick demo of another
thing that got fixed by this and
basically it's an opt-out on regular
websites so some people reported that a
TFS companion breaks the tube most
because they have like their own content
routing based on their own of the
gateways and Psyche address so you can
see like right now activist companion is
enabled and the page the sort of stock
did not does not load so I said oh
redirects for only on this one website
and it automatically reloaded the page
with those new rules so the redirect is
disabled as you can see like the video
started playing so that's like a nice
fix for the situation where people been
disabling redirect globally because only
one website did not work with IPS
companion another idea is to add like an
option here to report that companion
broke some websites not sure if like how
to how useful that would be but it would
for sure maybe give us more data points
how people are using IP FS in a way that
does not work with companion so I think
that that if you are interested in
details and like what's remained there
are select some stuff that remains to be
done before this PR is ready to merge
but basically I would appreciate
feedback on the UX site hosting to make
it like very very
creative two people what is happening
and I stop sharing now that is very cool
I also like it when there's multiple
cursors on the screen at the same time
that's very good
any questions for little no okay
Oh Chris wearing capri one question
actually not so much about the cool new
I don't even have it but the the first
policy and it's not just for data
storage in ipfs not how ipfs works with
additional tracking in oh it's racing
only for our browser extension it's it's
like it's not a general privacy policy
for ipfs as a project it's only for
browser extension and it was created
mostly because some other stores for
example the one for firefox hosted by
mozilla they require privacy policy and
during manual review a person is reading
the privacy policy and is verifying if
the extension does what privacy policy
says it does so it's only for ipfs
companion and what aquafers companion
does is basically either redirecting to
your local gateway in that case we we
don't care what happens next but if you
run new embedded node and that node may
be connecting to some servers over
WebSockets that belongs to protocol labs
and some data may be cached for some
time on servers that belong to protocol
labs or some other people cause it's
really like peer-to-peer so your friend
might have some data that you've
uploaded so those like this kind of
information is in current version of
privacy policy just to sort of set the
stage for users to better understand
what's happening and what are like
privacy considerations we mentioned that
if you like data is public by default
and I give us and if you want to share
some sensitive data you
to encrypt before uploading caipira so
stuff like that and it's not an
electrode for this browser extension we
don't have any tracking yet the like the
matrix I will be in web UI but we no
longer ship web UI with IQ FS companion
so we basically have a single sentence
that we don't like gather any metrics by
the extension itself so that stuff
awesome
just with the clarification
and
reminder the need to paint legal to sort
out a privacy policy with you life and
desktops okay next uh Tiago you got
anything to die what school okay we're
not really don't have anything today
more because I'm still working on the
files least rectory
I basically spent my whole week banging
my head against the wall because nothing
was working but then all they came to
the rescue
and unblock me stuff well I can I don't
know yeah I thank you if it's working
then no one else's sin and it kind of
working yeah okay it's a work in
progress
yes so what what what's the what's the
goal for the piece of work
okay the goal of this is so we can have
a huge list and browse browse netlist
with no problem we're using react
virtualized alright this are two files
but some things that were broken and now
are working the upper tier stuff this
was completely welcome now find the
check boxes are working too and I'm
almost finishing than the keyboard
navigation so this is kind of working
too just for example one of the things
that's not working and was working when
we scroll down this is surely it's
pretty laggy for you guys but when we
scroll down if I deselect everything and
then I try to select the file with the
keyboard it's going to break why is that
it breaks because I'm trying to access a
file that is not in the realm because of
real act virtualized so what I'm
thinking of doing right now is basically
wherever were in any situation of the
lists when I press key down or Kiev I'll
select the first file that is on view in
the browser
version of the web UI we're always
electing the first file the list
Metin think that's correct imagine we're
on the bottom of the list if we try to
select a file it's always going to be
the first one selected so the window
will scroll through every bounce to the
first one I realize getting my point I
don't totally understand but that's okay
for the signature but the scope is cool
I understand that using the keyboard
navigation is not so good certainly not
words like selecting things yeah it's
not that good good it's going to we go I
think read some point I'm joking
I think one problem Alden was that we
were just storing rest all over the
place and that's a terrible patent and
an even worse pattern once we are
virtualizing the viewport such that refs
are going to disappear once they scroll
out of these yeah but yeah but you said
to me too I tried to this week I tried
to use the outdoor gear I don't know you
know what I'm talking about so we a
bachelor has built-in no shipping out to
step through a virtualized list and
we'll buy a keyboard controls yeah but
that's only for navigation as we have
lots of functions we have navigation we
have selections we have renaming
deletion everything with the keyboard I
tried using the reactor july's to look
that's not working so I'm doing
everything lately and I'm still going to
use rest but I'm going to clean them as
the files are disappearing from the bomb
are you okay with that only because I
know you said you didn't rest but I
found that this was the best solution
okay I'm going
Abbey outside of this cool I'd be
curious to know why just using stasis is
not sufficient
um yeah we can talk about that right oh
good good news is that the fundamental
part is now working yeah yes the
virtualization of the long-promised
wasn't there last week and is there this
week and hopefully wish its message yes
I feel like I'm working on this for ages
it was always gonna be tricky because
we'd throw in a lot of functionality
into the file list assuming that it was
going to be a static long list and then
we tried to render a thousand things and
it was dogs loads so yeah it doesn't
sound very interplanetary so yes the
virtualized sounds into planetary care
ok any questions video girl no okay
Enrique can't join us so I will just
quickly the highlights from him I think
their release of the RC one of seven IPS
desktop mainly bug fixes and official
developer certificates for Apple and
Windows are the most significant things
we also have done a first pass inside IP
of desktop when you first run it it will
initialize the nicest s repository for
you if you don't have one and when we
have that opportunity we are now
customizing the ipfs config to behave
more sensibly for an average desktop
users experience so assuming that your
as you know your a laptop and you go
offline a lot and that you're not
running IP others desktop on your home
server
it's tuned to have a lower maximum
connections so by default as if s
connection manager has a range of about
like high-water mark is 600 so if you
find more than 600 stairs it'll start
proactively
pruning them down to the low 600 and a
low-water mark of about 300 so it's
gonna try and keep adding stairs until
you get over 300 desktop we bring that
right down to between I think low-water
mark is 50 connection than the
high-water mark is 200 and but we have a
higher grace period so the grace period
is used to prevent flashing of
connections no connection will be pruned
within the grace period durations if you
connect someone you connect your two
hundred and first swarm peer the best
connection will remain for at least five
minutes anyway the main point is that
it's enthused to behave like a good
desktops no it's not a server that seems
like a useful step points this is in
lieu of having an actual ipfs desktop
profile you can pass flags you can pass
a profile for a glad to the IP 50 min
but it doesn't yet have a desktop
profile so initially doing that work in
customized config someone has poked the
chat see this difference is it rustling
on my face outrageous the main reason
for the rc1 suffix on the release is
also today or tomorrow we're going to
push out on our c2 so that we can
amongst the GUI team and the in browsers
team test that the water update
procedure is working better than it did
for the jump from own or six total seven
there are there was a couple of problems
with the auto-update with that one was
we didn't have deficits which meant that
the OS X experience basically didn't
work we also were trying to do the
update silently in the background which
failed terribly so this has switched it
to a more proactive while the app is
running it will periodically check for
updates and it will show a notification
in the youth in the UI so a little
pop-up will say there's a new version of
the app would you like to install it so
then it's a more proactive user
initiated action whereas before it would
wait until you were showing down
there which because it's a taskbar
long-running process would only happen
when you shut down your system and the
timing of events for like that for any
app during OS shutdown is pretty racy
and for electron maps particularly like
they have limited like getting it right
cross cross platform is was a bag of
snakes so it didn't make any sense
anyway so we simplified that that's and
wreak some day I have nothing exciting
to show but I'm very very close to
having the ipfs cluster and circle CI
based website deploy process running
basically we were leaning on Jenkins the
short story is Jenkins with being super
slow all the other teams
whereas the GUI team was just using
Jenkins to do website deploy so for us
it there was no problems because we
weren't leaning on it for our testing
we've shut down Jenkins or wide pretty
like abruptly which means the one
benefit that we were getting out of it
we are no longer receiving so I am
there's a whole bunch of work that we
did to update the IP of the Explorer and
[Music]
do go fix the load of bugs and did a
little updating
I fixed the little bugs the load of
updating and you're just about to deploy
it and then Jenkins went away so now I
am rushing to get the circle see I paste
blessed deployment process in place and
in the background we're still very very
close to having our own hosted count
lead based analytic system so this means
we want to get useful metrics across my
PFS
web UI and okay let's desktop about
numbers of users and what's the features
they find useful it's also Lee
anonymized telemetry
there's no personal stuff in there but
we don't want to throw all that
information at Google Analytics we want
to own that state there and not so that
we can verify that it's not being used
for anything untoward and it is just for
the developers to make better more
informative
about which features of the app are
actually being useful and which aren't
getting used and use that tried better
decisions anyway it's all out for months
it's now gone through legal it's gone
through finance it's gone through
infrastructure things are getting signed
next week it's gonna get demoed I've got
the face anything
I've spoken for too long next up Jim
would you like to give us a demo do you
got it in to share with the crowd oh
stop screen sharing just do really so
this is the most minimal demo ever so so
this is my demo so this is the pier diem
demo that goes ala did and I modified it
so I publish straight published like a
static version of the web page to ipfs
so it pushed it to my local IP FS but I
did this I was showing this last week
where they had the pending status but
now you get a little checkbox what what
is local what is local I could has mean
in this situation
so we do net I'm running an IP FS demon
on my laptop and so I got pin to that
but if I close my laptop it's not gonna
be available on the network anymore so
where I really want the bid to be pinned
is in ipfs cluster so I have this iframe
running in behind here make this
this is this is synchronized with the
iframe and when you pin something it it
puts in the the CID into the ice cream
and then iframes running pure base so I
get synchronized this part of this pure
base collaboration in then on my machine
oh I have a little note EOS program I'm
running which also joined the
collaboration and watches for any pins
and it just relays the pin over to ipfs
cluster which I have one running at home
so so the point is it's just as a user I
don't really have to know that there's a
pin or running or that there's a little
I train running hidden iframe all I have
to know is you know
you
so so this is in a document you know is
it going be safe forever well it may not
be forever but it's like whatever the
policy is of the ipfs cluster
so so it's sort of a nice flow cuz uh
you can pretty much build any type of
publishing app and as long as it can
really messages to a hidden iframe or
some services you can keep keep the data
alive sir and apart from that I I'm in
Portland this week so I went for coffee
with Eric Lee Gazala and so I picked his
brains on what he's planning to do glue
net so pretty interesting stuff it's
hard hard down there like I was reading
the source code and he's doing like so
many using so many browser API features
I had no idea I need these things
existed is really interesting trying to
pick that code apart but this this is
actually using the older there's his
code from last week but his new new code
falls back to GSI TFS so if you're not
running a local IP FS daemon which you
know most people aren't going to be
it'll still work because the GS ipfs
I like the idea that because Allah is
moving so quickly that this is based off
some weak old stuff it's not even
relevant anymore very cool
Hugo tea house how are you doing I'm
sorry you shouldn't use his full name
Hugo fancy mr. Diaz you see - are you
reading us
oh no like I can't hear you go oh there
you go
this is always telling me that's my
internet isn't stable so marry me so
I've been doing a lot of tribe things
all know probably so at the Travis
triples helped about some stuff normally
windows related on IPL did ripples
I just finished adding support to Asia
for bioscience tracking and also added
that check to it when we pool there
befits the city l-let me just share my
screen looks like we actually get a nice
check writing the PR telling you all
about your bundle size and went these
pull request gets merge will get an
extra little bit of information here
about the difference between the fully
quest and master or just like it get
nice page telling or busy
some things not really useful but the
shack itself in the repo I think will
give more visibility about at least so
people start looking at the size and
care much about it so this thing should
be just as a quick addendum to that
we've been using that on IP less web UI
and desktop and various GUI team repos
for a good few months now and it has
really helped like it's caught a bunch
of things like when we were bundling IP
LD into the main bundle for the web app
and we didn't spot it and we should have
been lazy importing I feel be and things
like that and just like when we've added
a dependency that has blown out the size
of the bundle and it's been really
helpful no problem
as you can see in this public West CI
files and why does it fail because the
windows VMs on Travis know do not
support secrets and to be able to add
bundle size I need to add a secret
authorizing the window side service to
access stuff so either we have window
size or we have windows I'm trying to
find out a way to just like remove the
secret for the windows job but I'm still
waiting on the support so this will
probably get a little bit paused until I
figure out how to handle that so more
stuff I really would appreciate if you
could look at these two links on the
blocks section the first one is the move
to Travis tracking issues so if you
any new ripples or want to help to
[Music]
report to Travis you will find out
information there and just pick one that
it's not in the list yet just do it
yourself
the second one is a thread talking about
having the package lock up Jason one of
the main things that we want to
accomplish with this is improving the
build the build times or the job times
in the Travis so we get more from the
resources yeah right now
and also to help a little bit catching
the dependencies that bubble up and
breaks things even if the semantic
versioning updates just patch but this
adding the package lock also has some
disadvantages so if you go to the issue
everything is explained some workarounds
are being explored so your feedback is
there too and for the rest of the week I
will try to figure out one side shakes
and edits to more repos and finish the
mesh marks and to reach into the CI I'll
probably also will more ripples or
issues about windows and line innings so
a whole problem that's also but yeah
that's it for me all right
thank you very much that's everyone
unless Chris you want to give us like a
dazzling give us a sneak peek sneak peek
sneaky peek Chris wearing if he caught
anything cool that you want to give us a
sneak peek oh I don't know what you're
talking about
it's awful
no Chris is working on a cool website
that we might see next week to be
continued but also some design systems
that will all become part of ipfs as
well I'm sure cool they want but we'll
have more excitement about that next
week to the agenda and then if anyone's
got anything else they want to talk
about they should have its the agenda
now but in the meantime we would really
like Henrique to be able to join these
calls as he is one of the founder
members of the ipfs greeting but he is
also at university and he has classes
right now which is why it's not here so
there is a poll to decide when to move
it to please vote if you haven't already
because I think it was there a winner
from the palma yeah it's like a lot of
winners mmm just terrible all around
don't make calls that what would happen
if we make the call t this time tomorrow
would everyone whatever and he's on the
call right now I'll be able to come to
the same call at the same time on a
Thursday Chris Ware has and if s
community one is overlapping event don't
really want to overlap with that maybe
prior to that the plan was to announce a
cool change on this cool so it sounds
like we don't have consensus about
moving to any particular other time yet
so I think we're going to have to defer
the cool change for another week
more water we just find stability is
great and we'll gradually forget what
and wreak looks like but we'll get them
to send photos and gifts maybe you could
record video messages they'll be great
video update yeah
okay so the call is gonna be the same
time same place next week and we shall
try again to research it'll then but
we'll try and it before the call and
just make an announcement if it's going
to happen vital you already did your
demo or if you got another demo I can do
it again no I did it super cool well
guess what guys we've been so efficient
that you can have 19 minutes of your
life back unless there's anything you
want to talk about got any burning
issues sing
get to it because on charges of winery
the windows and CIS so one article that
got published recently from the disco I
mean forget to share my screen you see
it not this guy
oh yeah yeah Google there's some stuff
in there and he published this article
so basically I don't know if you know
the school school that they published
has something to do with images and yeah
it's a compressor so it's yeah it runs
like ping squash and various image
compression algorithms in your browser
everything in the browser so the main
point of the article is not like to
explain the app but to talk a little bit
about web assembly and all that jazz so
the cool thing that I want to explore a
little bit is they explain everything in
really really really nice with the
really nice examples and everything
basically they want to make this piece
of code into was but using at least
three different options like going from
C C++ to was from rust was me and from
one new thing that I didn't know that
actually pretty cool that it's called
assembly scripts so a single script is
basically type script
and the main difference between these
two is that it's like the standard
library of like expectant script is a
little bit modified so they can easily
transpile to Wasson so this is like
could be really useful to do a quick or
quick tests to see some of the our
dependencies that are basically math can
be improved using simple script because
basically we just can just like copy
paste the code from say more machines
into a single script file run the
compiler and get a wasp then we would
get like the same performance our
theoretically the same performance in
all the browsers plus node possibly some
speed improvements and all that stuff so
this is basically one of the things I
don't want to try out and also at the
end they talked a little bit about rust
and all the tools and oh and how can you
just use stuff that's in cargo and get
was but also not like a big file that
you that you we normally do when you get
rust well you get a beautiful bigger
will be a real big file and they talk a
little bit doubt you can reduce the file
size so you get the performance and you
get to bundle size assembly script it's
not always faster than rusts probably
rust is always fastest one but before
the file size is really good because
there's no there's nothing else coming
into the the file size
from like the standard library from
whatever language like arrests there's
one of the things that always gets
inside the one of the files size is the
it's like the Russ printf because if you
like throw an exception you need to like
bring stuff to the stand on up quote so
meaning the printf for that and
everything gets in the file size there's
waste there's waste of remove that rust
but Simmons free can be a really easy
way to do it because it's still
JavaScript and the file size is really
small so the first step would be for me
at least would be to try out and see if
it's worth it and so I just wanted one
attitude to show how this looks like and
talk a little bit about assembly script
because I didn't know it maybe you also
didn't know it now you know it that's it
thank you very much this is the the
driving force to have some reliable CRE
so that we can start doing these kind of
experiments I don't anybody go anything
else once or quote you already know how
much I like typescript so I was just I
was thinking as he showed it I was like
Chris Waring's gonna be like this is the
vanguard it's how we get it in that's
what's so cool I am I'm aware of the
fact that JSI BFS is about to do a
release very soon and go more racy go
ipfs is going to do a release really
soon so I really want to get all the
work that we've put into web UI into
those things before they release
otherwise we'll have to wait another
three months for them its release but I
am aware that I'm also blocked on things
outside of our control to get to get the
telemetry in place so that it's weighing
on my mind I don't have a good solution
that but more that the excitement of
we've got a batch of new releases at the
door and it's the race condition of
whether we're people I will get to
demonstrate the fruits of it work in
inside
flagship releases so there's some
pressure to get that done is it is it
just the instance that's the main
bottleneck or is it the could you call
it we could so it would be nice to get
what do go and I have been working on
with the virtualized list but it's real
fiddly and I think that yoga is nearly
done with it but it's fiddly so it could
still take another I'm not gonna say it
cuz I'll demoralized you it's nearly
done but in theory we could cut a
release without that in but it would be
a shame to cut a release another release
without telemetry in because like
tracking metrics for adoption of ipfs is
like a big goal for this year and to
wait another three months to get that
rolled out would be a shame I mean it's
you know if you've got Do Not Track
enabled in your browser it's we're not
going to get any telemetry anyway but it
will then say would you like to help
it's got an opt-in like would you like
help help us so I'd like to get that in
but I can't roll it out until the thing
is deployed throw the metric the void
even if the instance is not there and
then when it Chris wearing Chris working
yeah yeah you're worth it that's it a
fool I'm gonna do I'm just gonna roll it
out and be like if it's not there just
ignore it
it's fine perfect I don't see any
downsides at this cool that's what I'm
going to do anything else well ten
minutes back
your day go enjoy the centralized early
internet way this has been the weekly in
web browsers and ipfs GUI sync up and
I'll see you here same time same place
next week because we didn't make time to
change the time so it's going to be at
the same time laters
ciao guys